good morning my name is Bob Dempster I'm
the executive director of the settled
world cruiser Association our project is
to build a reproduction of the
douglasville Cruiser which was the first
airplane to fly around the world in 1924
from Seattle now this event has been
while the second aviation milestone
after the Wright brothers lots of
sensational things have happened in
aviation in this project we're going to
build this airplane flight around the
world and donate it to the museum of
flight museum while here we are at the
hangar with the liberty engine that will
be using an airplane and of course what
goes on in front of an engine is the
propeller we've scanned the original
propeller at the Museum of Flight mr.
Steve kid from sim tech who is a
reseller of mastercam and that was the
program that was used for the actual
milling of the propeller the important
part of this was that not only did we
have to replicate it but we had to
replicate it exactly which is of course
the feature of digital scanning and in
reproducing with CNC machines today the
exactness of the propeller is important
because it was designed for this
specific engine and without that mating
we wouldn't get the performance on the
airplane we have the original
performance figures and our flight test
program will show us how close we get to
those figures but the propeller is
integrals and performance of courses is
number one so the Steve down at
mastercam and his great team have helped
us produce this propeller and this is a
cut down version this is the test club
that will be used
and then the next one will be for flight